---
title: GitHub Code Search
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# GitHub Code Search

> >

GitHub Code Search is a feature in GitHub that helps you find the code you're looking for faster and more efficently.

---

# GitHub Code Search

- [Features site](https://github.com/features/code-search/)
- You, your team, public
- [Fast, extremely powerful](https://github.blog/2023-02-06-the-technology-behind-githubs-new-code-search/)

> >

You can find more information on this website, which is an overview of the features available through code search.

With it, you can quickly search through your own code, your Team's code or billions of lines of public code.

It was written from scratch in Rust, and uses modern approaches like sharding and delta encoding to allow you to search through terabytes of data and billions of lines of code in milliseconds. Learn more about the technology behind the improvements on this blog post.

---

# Features

- RegExp, boolean operations, shortcuts
- Suggestions, completions
- Powerful/flexible syntax
- New code view

> >

You can use regular expressions or boolean operations like AND or OR. There's also tons of keyboard shortcuts to help you search faster.

Once you start searching, you'll get suggestions throughtout the entire interface as well as auto-completions that suggest what you should do.

There is an an advanced and intuitive syntax that helps you build and save your searches so you can retrieve similar results later.

## And it's not just a search engine, there is a new code view that lets you interact with the results better with a sidebar that also shows you definitions of the code you find plus a file browser that's more similar to what you're used to in your IDE.

---

# Getting Access

- [Public beta](https://github.com)
- Turn on feature preview
- [Search site](https://github.com/search)

> >

As of this video, it's not on by default on GitHub, it is available through a public beta, which you can sign up it by going to GitHub.com

You can also toggle this feature on your own preferences, look for the Feature preview section and look for New Code Search and Code View, although once it's merged into the site, it will be on by default.

You can also access it through a special URL at github.com/search
