---
title: Search Interface
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Search Interface

> >

Let's take a look at the new code view and the features of the search interface.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Toolbar

- `Filter By`
  - TYPE: `code` `repositories` `issues` `pull requests` `discussions` `users` `commits` `packages` `wikis` `topics` `marketplace`

> >

The sidebar is context sensitive, so items there will change depending on your search.

(e.g. react will find all of the items in these filter by categories)

The sidebar sections coincide with some of the options for searching, so if you don't remember the syntax...just do an empty search, you can use the sidebar to help you out.

The filter by section. This allows you to filter results by different sub-parameters.

Notice that the URLs change as you add different parameters.

There's also an advanced section that allows you to add more complex search parameters.

If you still can't get to what you want, you can go directly to the advanced search page from the bottom.

---

# Sidebar

- Context help
- Feedback link
- Tips

> >

The right sidebar is also context sensitive, so items there will change depending on your search.

This is also where you can give some feedback to the team about the search interface.

There's also a few tips that will pop up to help you.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Main Search

- Results
- Save
- Star/Sponsor

> >

Once you search, in the main section you'll get some results which will depend on the search type.

You can also save the results so you can get back to them later. More on that later.
