---
title: Search Qualifiers
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Search Qualifiers

> >

The fact that search assumes you want to find your own repositories by including the owner qualifier might be making you wonder what the other qualifiers are. Let's take a look.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Main Qualifiers

- `owner` `org` `user` `repo`<br>
  `language` `filename` `path` `type`<br>
  `base` `reason` `author` `assignee` `mentions` `team` `stars`<br>
  `commenter` `involves` `linked` `label` `milestone` `state` `head`<br>
  `base` `status` `review` `reviewed-by` `user-review-requested`<br>
  `draft` `archived`

> >

You can see there's a whole lotta qualifiers some of them should make sense so you can look for the owner of a repo, search by organization or a specific user.

Some of these make more sense when you're using them, so let's take a look at some examples.

org:LinkedInLearning author:planetoftheweb React

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Flex Qualifiers

- `type`

  - `user` `org` `pr` `issue` `discussion` `commit` `repo` `topic` `package` `discussion` `marketplace`

- `is`
  - OPT: `archived` `fork` `pr` `issue` `open` `closed` `merged`<br>
    `unmerged` `public` `private` `open` `closed` `queued`
- `in`
  - OPT: `title` `comments` `body`

> >

There's a special group of qualifiers that are a little more flexible. they allow you to search by type like specific PRs , users, orgs, etc.

You can look for wether a pull request is open, closed, merged, unmerged, etc.

You can also search for specific titles, comments, or body text of the repo.

org:LinkedInLearning author:planetoftheweb in:title type:discussion javascript

---

# Options

- [Old vs New Search](https://docs.github.com/en/search-github)
- [Advanced Search](https://github.com/search/advanced)

> >

If you don't remember the qualifiers, you can use the advanced search, it's a form that creates a search with the qualifiers that you'd normally type yourself.
