---
title: How Do I Search?
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# How Do I Search?

> >

Let's take about some of the features of the search box as well as the shortcuts available.

---

# Shortcuts

- /, S or Click
- Command + K/Command Opt K (Mac)
- Ctr K/Ctrl Opt K (PC)
- ? All shortcuts

> >

Search is available from every page on the site via a search box in the header.

You can see that there's a slash in the box, which suggests that you can use the slash to get to the search box. Although it doesn't say so, you can also hit the S key and you can also just click on the search box.

You can also use the Command Palete to get to search, which is command-k or Ctrl + K, although I think the slash is easier and seems to have better auto-completion.

Just also have to mention that if you are ever looking for shortcuts in GitHub, you can always hit the ? key to get a list

---

# Search Box

- Context aware search
- Context aware code section
- Arrow keys to navigate
- Repository list

> >

The search box is context sensitive, so if you're on your profile page, it will search your repositories, if you're on a team page, it will search that team's repositories, if you're on a repository page, it will search that repository.

You can see that there's a code section and as you type a more specific search, that section will change to show you what you're searching for.

You can use the arrow keys from here and hit return to jump to a specific search.

Notice that there's also a list of repositories which is being sorted by the recency, which is nice.
